Here are three project ideas:

1. **MLB 'Big Moments' Bot**: I will design a program that scrapes live MLB data in search of 'big' moments and then composes a prose natural language tweet that alerts followers to tune to that game. The initial data will be scraped from FanGraphs, a website that has live play-logs that include advanced statistics that quantify the importance of particular plays. Once a 'big play' has been detected, the program will generate a tweet that describes the play in a naturally-sounding way. The language generation will be the meat of the project and pre-existing tweets will be used to train and tune the algorithm. Evaluation of the results may be tricky, but one possible quantitative approach could be tracking the number of followers of the Twitter bot.
2. **Volleyball Match Summarization**: I will design a program that generates a brief (1-2 paragraph) summary of a volleyball match given the box score, team/player statistics, and play-by-play log. This type of program would be particularly useful for high school and intramural leagues, where a dedicated sports writer may not be covering each match, but the school or league organizer would still like to publish a summary article for all of the matches.  
3. **Social Network Analysis**: This one's much more general because I don't quite know what analysis I'd be doing. I love Reddit as a data source, but I'm not entirely sure what I'd do with it. For my 579 final, I analyzed the political biases of news sources based on the subreddits they were posted in and really enjoyed that, so perhaps this project could also focus on analyzing the political subreddits in some way. Or I could perform sentiment analysis on comments in order to compare/contrast different brands. This one will require a bit more brainstorming and discussing to figure out the exact goal. 
